Now that we have an understanding of the machine learning pipeline and we have looked at the basics
of working with us we can move on to oppositional sentiment analysis case study.
So we are in 0 2.
That sentiment analysis does begin file and we are going to revisit the code that we did in the very
first video of this course.
So as before we are going to begin by important get us.
And then we are going to import some layers some models and the IDB data set right.
So this is as we did earlier on some of these things are new but we will cover them as they come along
in the actual code.
So these are just the imports.
Now we have some parameters for the models here.
For instance in the previous videos we had a number of layers.
So here we are going to have some detailed models.
And in those we are going to use all these different parameters and we'll explain each of these parameters
in this video as they come along.
So that's done.
Now we are going to try and load the IDB dataset.
Now this set over here the one that has been selected this guy in here.
This is kind of a hack because there is a bug in the.
Get us to.
And it's not going to load the data.
If you don't do this.
Right.
So this line over here.
This should work fine but because there is a bug in get us because they updated num by and get us has
not been updated yet.
So if you try to execute this load data file so you would recall that we were able to load the amnesty
data set very easy using a similar syntax.
We should be able to do this but because of the bug it's not going to work.
So this code over here we don't really have to understand this.
I found this off the Internet.
What it essentially does is it patches the low data function of num by and gets rid of the bug that
is causing us to fail.
Right.
So essentially what it does is you don't have to understand this but just for the sake of completeness
I'd explain it.
So it saves the end brought load function the numbers load function into an old pointer and then it
goes ahead and defines a different function which calls the older load function and then saves that
as and beat out load so that minimal and we don't load it's called it works properly.
So you don't have to understand this but this is just a hack to make sure that Qantas can load the MTV
data set until they fix Qantas right.
So it escalated on this.
Then we load the actual data.
So this is what we were interested in in the first place.
So we are going to load the MTV data and again this data might have to be downloaded the first time
so might take a little bit of time depending on your internet connection.
But once you have that we are going to be able to work with this.
And now it's extremely important that we understand what this data is and how it is structured.
Because when you go into the real world and tried to implement algorithms machine learning tools to
solve your problems you need to understand your data and how to map that into the learning that you
have done in courses such as this one.
So you understand the importance to the model by understanding the data and then when you have your
own data you should be able to maybe delay it.
So that's the idea.
So we are going to move to the discussion of the actual data and for that one of the most important
things is that you have to understand the shape.
Now this X underscore train is an array and we have to understand what it looks like right.
So we saw a similar thing in the previous videos as well.
So we are going to take a look at this.
So extra and our shape is twenty five thousand common.
So it has twenty five thousand symbols right.
So that's our training data.
So we're also going to have the labels so obviously that is also going to have twenty five thousand.
Now if we want to take a look at the actual labels you can say why train 0.
So give me the actual structure of the first data points labeled and that is a one.
So that's a positive sentiment and zero is a negative sentiment.
Extreme zero the first data point.
The actual review is important already.
So if you see that you will see that it has all these numbers.
So what are these numbers.
We have to understand them.
So one would correspond to a word 14 would correspond to another word and so on.
So whenever you see 14 that is going to be that particular word.
Now what we want to do is we want to take a look at what the correspondence is.
So for instance we want to see what this 14 corresponds to right.
So in order to do that we have to understand what is going on in the actual data set.
So for that we are going to call a function so get a start date data sets don't and we don't get word
index that is going to return to us a dictionary which we are going to save in this word i.e. variable
and then we are going to take a look at the key value pairs which are in this dictionary and we just
want to see the first 10.
Right.
So starting from the beginning and just the 10 so that we have an understanding of what it looks like.
So if you do that you will see that fun has the number three for 70 to 1.
And these are all these words towards has 14 0 8 and so on and so forth.
Right.
So if you want to see the numbers corresponding to particular words we can use the dictionary indexing
index.
So all of these so love would be 116 like would be thirty seven boring would be 350 for an interest
interesting would be two hundred and eighty.
So that is essentially the mapping from words to numbers.
Now please remember that in order to do the actual learning we don't have to concern ourself with this
mapping.
We already have this data set over here and we can just go ahead and do the learning.
But the problem is that we don't want to do the learning just on the to data set in the future.
Our goal is to be able to do sentiment analysis for X that we download off the Internet for instance
about our products.
So we have to understand how we go from words to these numbers.
So that is what we're doing.
Remember the goal is to be able to map our own problems onto this machine learning pipeline.
Right.
So let's go ahead and take a look at how we can do that.
So we are going to define a couple of helper functions I'll first explain what this first function does
and then we move onto the other two functions.
So our goal is to be able to go from a sentence for instance I love this product to a sequence of numbers
which looks like this.
So that is our goal.
Another goal is given these list of numbers we should be able to go to a sentence.
So we want to see what this review actually is.
And the other objective is when we have our own sentence we want to be able to translate it into this
index right.
So those are the two things that we want to do and both of them are essentially going to use the dictionary.
So we first write this helper function so get fixed word to I.D. dictionary.
So what this is going to do is it's going to create a dictionary which is going to translate a fixed
word any word to the idea that is this number.
So that is essentially the purpose of this function.
For that we are going to reserve three functions so a space is going to be a zero.
Whenever we start a sentence we are going to tag it with these stock tag and whenever we have a word
which is unknown.
So for instance we have a limited dictionary here because we cannot have the whole English language
dictionary because it's very organic and exchanging every day.
So we want to be able to ensure that anybody of an unknown word RE market does too.
So these three are important.
And what we're going to do is we're going to start from the number three and onwards.
So what we do is we again get this dictionary into word lady as we did up over here.
Then we go ahead and create a mapping so far Kagan of the N word to ideas or items.
So all the key value pairs what we do is we assign the plus index forms.
So whenever the order number was 0 it's going to be now free.
And so on and so forth because we need to accommodate all of these as well.
So that's just so that we can have the start unknown and the space in order mapping so variable essentially
for this function.
All you need to understand is it's creating that dictionary and incorporating these three domains as
well.
Right now we have another function which we give it a data point.
So essentially this is a list of integers and we are going to convert them into an English sentence
so we don't need that.
Let's get rid of that.
So what we want to do is we want to get a dictionary.
And in this dictionary we are going to have all the key value pairs what we want to flip them.
So that given the value we have the key.
So for instance if we have the number 14 we want to know what key it corresponds to.
So essentially we are creating a diverse mapping which instead of going from word to number we are going
from number to what.
And we essentially take all the items in this data point.
So on the ideas.
So for instance 15 17 19 or if we go up over here we are going to take this one 14 22 16 and so forth.
We are going to take that and we are going to look up into this idea to the word dictionary so that
we get the actual word out and then we are going to join all those words using a space.
So essentially take a number look up the word corresponding to that number.
Collect all of those words and join them using a space right.
That's a very frightening way of doing things very compact but you can write loops for this as well.
So again the purpose is take the data point which is a list of ideas and convert it into an accurate
sentence that we as humans can see.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to take a data point that we want to show and for instance
that data point is this one 14 22 16 and so on.
What we want to do is we want to decode this thing to a sentence and we print that and you can see that
that if you starts and then we have this film was just brilliant casting location et cetera et cetera.
And we want to see the actual sentiment as well which is a one.
So the first part is done.
Now we have the ability to work from the ideas to sentences.
Remember that we do not really need to do this if we are just doing the training but that is what I
feel is lacking in all of the machine learning courses.
They don't teach you this portion and that is why people suffer when they tried to match them onto their
own problems.
So in the next video we are going to go ahead and do the other part which is taking a sentence and translating
it into the ideas.